Dear Professors Thorn, Joy, and Bewley

I wish to appeal against an earlier decision of manuscrip EJP-105190, "Light
inextensible strings in the Schwarzschild geometry".

Thank you for giving me the opportunity to appeal the earlier decision.  I
believe the negative comments of the reviewers are due to a
misconstruing of the manuscript; and one of the comments, although
apparently negative, can be interpreted in a positive way.  I believe
that I can address all three referees' comments with only very minor
changes to the manuscript (and a modified figure).

In the following, the referees' comments are preceded by a chevron
(">") and my replies are included inline.  I have changed linebreaks
in the interest of clarity; I also respond to the positive comments
that were made.

I note that no referee even hints at lack of novelty, or interest, or
accuracy.  The problem considered is natural and informative.


Referee: 1

COMMENTS TO THE AUTHOR(S)

> In the manuscript, the Author analyses lengths of radial string and
> inextensible string as defined in eq.1 and eq.6 respectively. For
> radial string, the Author presents two asymptotic expansions given in
> eq.3 and eq.4. For the inextensible string, analytic asymptotic
> expressions are not available and therefore the Author, by using so
> called R programming language, presents result of his analysis in
> Fig2-6.

This is a fair summary of the content of the manuscript although I
would point out the asymptotic expressions for radial strings do not
appear elsewhere.  Their appearance in the manuscript is a natural
consequence of considering inextensible string.

The "so-called R programming language" is rapidly becoming the lingua
franca of many numerical disciplines, alongside python.  R is
open-source and this philosophy facilitates open exchange of ideas.

> To my opinion all results discussed in the article can be considered
> homework problem for undergraduate students.

I interpret this observation as a *positive* comment on the
manuscript: a novel but natural problem is stated; the solution is
presented sufficiently clearly to be considered (by this referee at
least) suitable for a homework problem.  Many new techniques are
obvious in retrospect.

Many of the exercises in classic textbooks (Rindler, Moore, Schutz)
started life as journal articles, the passage from research article to
homework problem is part of the natural cycle of improvement in
understanding.

> I note however that EJP is international journal of high quality. This
> journal is not devoted for publication results of homework problems
> for undergraduate student.

> In my opinion, results obtained in the manuscript do not warrant
> publication on EJP.

The comments above make no criticism of the manuscript; the comments
merely observe that the methodology is obvious in retrospect.

> There is no discussion of up-to-date problems in the manuscript.
> The manuscript is not recommended for publication in EJP.

There is nothing relevant in the literature apart from the articles I
have cited, which makes it difficult to discuss "up-to-date problems".
I spent a very long time with our physics subject specialist
information professional (librarian) searching for relevant literature
and we found nothing; searching is difficult because the term "string"
means something very different in modern literature.


Referee: 2

COMMENTS TO THE AUTHOR(S)

> This manuscript studies some aspects of the Schwarzschild geometry by
> considering inextensible light strings with tension placed in the
> background of this spacetime. These strings are curved following
> spacelike geodesics, which present some differences with respect to
> the timelike and null geodesics followed by particles and light rays.

This is an accurate summary of the work.

> I think this is a nice exercise that shows quite unintuitive features
> of black hole geometries, and therefore it is a valuable example in
> order to illustrate the non-euclidean character of the spacetime in
> General Relativity.

Thank you for this comment!   Thank you!

> I have a question concerning Fig. 2. Should I understand that the
> paths shown there really represent light strings with some tension
> which are fixed at their endpoints? So, if two persons were pulling
> from each end, would the strings remain static following those curves?

Yes, if two persons were to pull on the ends of the string, it would
remain static.  In the manuscript I have avoided such interpretations
on the grounds that light inextensible strings do not exist, but the
referee is absolutely correct.  A sentence confirming this would be
very easy to add to the manuscript.  The referee's insight could well
lead to other counter-intuitive features of the Schwarzschild
geometry, so surely manuscript would sit well in a research journal.

> This is particularly striking in the case of the strings that almost
> round the black hole. I would ask the author to clarify and emphasize
> this point.

This is a valuable piece of feedback.  As I said, I was not keen to
emphasise interpretations along these lines because of the
idealization of light inextensible string...but if the referee thinks
it is worth emphasising I certainly can do so.  For example, figure 3
could have an additional string showing the self-intersection
explicitly, rather than implicitly as currently done.  That would be a
very visually striking illustration of the referee's insight.


> Also, in the line 74 it reads “If phi’ is small…” but I think it
> should be r’ instead of phi’.


Technically he is right, but because the string is tangential at
phi=0, small r' is equivalent to small phi'.  My thinking was that phi
was the independent variable; further, r' would not be observable
locally.  But a clarificatory comment would be easy to add here.


> When these points are taken into account I think the paper would be ready for
> publication.


thank you!

Referee: 3

COMMENTS TO THE AUTHOR(S)

> I am sorry, but the author of this paper seems to have misunderstood
> something fundamental in physics. There are no light inextensible
> objects in curved spacetime, especially not in the vicinity of a black
> hole. It is ironic, that the author uses the word "string", since
> strings are not at all inextensible. On the contrary, since
> longitudinal motion is unphysical for strings.  In conclusion, I
> recommend rejection.

I am having difficulty constructively engaging with these comments.
Noone is claiming that light inextensible string actually exists; it
is merely a useful and informative idealization of real string, used
by many influential textbook authors.  I discuss this at length in the
manuscript, including a discussion of the situation in the vicinity of
a black hole.  Authors such as Rindler use light inextensible strings
as an informative idealization; noone takes Rindler to task for this,
and certainly noone accuses Rindler of misunderstanding fundamental
physics.


I cannot interpret the phrase "longitudinal motion is unphysical for
strings".  I simply do not understand what this referee is trying to
convey.


Referee: Editor in Chief
COMMENTS TO THE AUTHORS

> We had two conflicting reports which is why - according to our regular
> procedures - an adjudicator was asked for a third independent opinion.
> As you can see, the latter also recommended rejection.  Considering
> the arguments of all reports I follow the critical referees and the
> paper is rejected.


Again, thank you for the opportunity to present my case.

With very best wishes

Robin





Following imbecelic email received from EJP June 17 2020:


COMMENTS TO THE AUTHOR(S)
Dear Editors,

The author intended to discuss light inextensible strings under
tension in the vicinity of a Schwarzschild black hole. There are basic
errors and complete faulty application of general relativistic
dynamics.  First, a point-particle traces out a world line with action
given by the integral of ds. That is, equations (2), (3), (4) and (5)
determine the world line of a point particle moving near the vicinity
of a Schwarzschild black hole (see Carroll's 1st edition spacetime and
geometry, chapter 3.3) and not the length of a string. A string is an
extended object in general relativity and traces out a world sheet
with action given by the Nambu-Goto action in terms of the world sheet
area (Zwiebach chapter 6.4). In fact tension and energy analysis of a
stretched string with full Poincare invariance is worked out correctly
starting in Zwiebach chapter 6.7.  The Equation in the paragraph above
line 60 on page 4 is not the Euler-Lagrange equation for the action in
(5). The form of the equation in the paragraph assumes (5) is Galilei
invariant, however (5) comes from the general relativistic line
element and thus is Poincare, Diffeomorphism and
re-affine-parametrization invariant. That implies that equation (6) is
not the correct equation of motion! The correct equation of motion is
simply the geodesic equation, which is well known for the
Schwarzschild spacetime. In fact looking at Carroll (first edition)
chapter 5, equation (5.53); the author's equation (6) should come from
the second equation in (5.53) of Carroll, when taking the respective
limits for t and theta. That said, the coefficient of (r')^2 should be
Gamma^r_{rr}, which is incongruent. Equation (6) is also not
compatible with the spacetime isometries of the Schwarzschild metric,
i.e. the conserved angular momentum is given by r^2d\phi/d\tau (See
Carroll (5.62)). Also (6) implies phi must be affine, since
(r-2M)=-\Gamma^r_{\phi\phi}D\phi/d\tau, but phi cannot be isomorphic
to an affine parameter since for c=1 the s in ds is affine.  In
conclusion, the manuscript is riddled with basic scientific errors and
not pedagogically significant. It is not suitable for publication.

EDITOR IN CHIEF'S FINAL COMMENTS:
We had a new independent adjudicator look at the paper and based on the report, the paper is now finally rejected after appeal.
