[sent to my gmail on 2 May 2019; slight editing for clarity and latexing of suggested equations]






R1's report


In this paper the author calculates the possible configurations of a
light inextensible string in the geometry of the Schwarzschild
spacetime. There are two major reasons why I cannot recommend the
publication of this paper in American Journal of Physics.

The first reason has to do with the physics of a massless string in
general relativity, which the author gets wrong. The closest thing to
a massless string in relativistic physics is the Nambu-Goto string,
for which the linear mass density is equal to the string tension. The
Nambu-Goto string provides a model for a cosmic string, and this model
has been extensively studied in the literature. It is known, for
example, that the string moves in a curved spacetime so as to
extremize the area of the two-dimensional world sheet (the analogue of
world line for a one-dimensional object). For a static string in
Schwarzschild spacetime, the condition of area extremum leads to the
following differential equation for r(phi):


r'' - 2(r-M) (r')^2/( r(r-2M) ) - r + M = 0,


where a prime indicates differentiation with respect to phi. This
equation is different from the author's Eq (6), which is obtained by
extremizing the string's proper length. It may be tempting to think (I
was so tempted until I did the calculation) that extremization of
world-sheet area should be the same as extremization of proper length
for a static string, but this is not so. If the author wishes to
calculate configurations of a Nambu-Goto string in the Schwarzschild
spacetime, he should proceed with the previous equation instead of his
Eq (6).

The second reason to recommend rejection has to do with the lack of
clear pedagogical objectives for the paper. Given the journal's
mendate, it is crucially important for each paper to spell out in the
clearest terms what its pedagogical objectives are. Papers published
in American Journal of Physics aim to help the physics instructor, and
the physics student, to gain useful insights into a given area of
physics. It is not clear, in this regard, what the author
intended. The introduction and discussion sections briefly mention the
counterintuitive behaviour of the centrifugal force identified by
Abramowicz, but the precise relation with strings is not explained.


R2's report

Date: 4/28/2019
Manuscript Number: 31390-1
Author: Robin K. S. Hankin
Title: Light inextensible strings under tension in the Schwarzschild geometry

1. Summary. Briefly summarize why you do or do not believe this
manuscript would be of interest and/or value to readers of the
American Journal of Physics.  I came to this article with some hope:
it seemed on first glance to be a nice, short article on a potentially
interesting topic. However, I regret to say that in its present form
it is not suitable for publication. There are mathematical errors in
the first section, and problems with clarity in a number of places
(including one of the figures). The author has also chosen an
unconventional unit system that may confuse readers, and certain
issues could benefit from a more detailed treatment. The last
paragraph contains some unwarranted and unjustified
speculation. Finally, I think that the author needs to make a better
case for why this would be of interest to readers.

2. Technical correctness. Is the manuscript technically correct?
There are some significant errors in the first section. Equation (2) should have read


\begin{equation}
  \int_{r=r_1}^{r_2}\frac{dr}{\sqrt{1-1/r}}=
  \left[
  \sqrt{r(r-1)} +\frac{1}{2}\ln\left(
  \frac{\sqrt{r}+\sqrt{r-1}}{\sqrt{r}-\sqrt{r-1}}\right)
  \right]_{r_1}^{r_2}
  \end{equation}


Stating the integral’s lower limit as “r = r1” was confusing,
particularly as it was not clear in the original that both terms to
the right of the equals sign were to be evaluated at the limits.  The
author also erroneously had “r” instead of “√r” as the first term in
both the numerator and denominator of the argument of the logarithm,
which should also be a natural logarithm, not a base-10 logarithm.

In spite of the incorrect expression in equation (2), equation (3)
appears to be right. But I think equation (4) lacks one term and had
the wrong factor in front of another: it should read:

\begin{equation}
  \ell = \frac{1}{2} + \ln(2) + \frac{1}{2}\ln w + w + \frac{3}{8}w^{-1} + O(w^{-2}),
\end{equation}


The missing factor of 1/2 ln w was particularly problematic in that it
means that the interpretation of the equation in the following
sentences needs adjustment.  In the last line of the section, the
author could be more firm: “radial strings clearly have a length
longer than the Schwarzschild radial coordinate difference w.”


After all of this, I was very afraid that equation (6) would not be
correct either. After several hours and pages of calculation, I
finally got very close to the same result (but I am still missing some
factors of 2). So I cannot be certain that it is correct either: it
needs careful checking. If the author has an easy way to prove this,
I’d love to see it outlined in an appendix: it was for me a
complicated and tricky calculation.

Finally, the speculation in last paragraph seems to me to be incorrect
or at least not convincing.  An ideal taut string simply marks out a
geodesic on the spacelike hypersurface t = constant, θ = 1/2 π. Its
tension therefore is simply directed along itself (it is locally
straight), and since it is already as straight as it can be, no energy
can be extracted by making the string “straighter” relative to the
Schwarzschild coordinate system. This is completely unlike the
situation in Cartesian coordinates in flat space, where
“straightening” the string would indeed release energy that could go
to kinetic energy in the string and/or the object around which the
string is bent. (In the case of a truly inextensible string in flat
space, the energy would come from work done on the string’s ends,
because they would move outward against the string’s tension as the
fixed-length string becomes more nearly a geodesic. But in the
Schwarzschild hypersurface, the string is already as straight as it
can be, so I think the intuitive analogy is a false one. In any case,
the situation is hopelessly unphysical, since no string is truly
massless or inextensible, and as the author points out, the tensions
on real strings approaching the event horizon would become impossibly
large.)

3. Attention to audience. Is the introduction sufficiently complete
and the general level of presentation sufficiently accessible to the
majority of AJP readers whose expertise will lie in other
subdisciplines of physics?  In general, the level was fine: to
understand the author’s main point one only needs a very basic
understanding of the Schwarzschild metric and the calculus of
variations. (The author could have arrived at equation (6) by using
the geodesic equation, I believe, but the approach through the
calculus of variations is more accessible.)


However, the author does refer to a few technical terms such as “the
dominant energy condition” and “Flamm’s paraboloid” that most readers
would not know. The author also appeals to “Rolle’s theorem,” which I
knew nothing about (and when I looked it up online, it did not seem to
be relevant to the argument). The author should either explain these
terms or avoid them.  Finally, I did not find the introduction that
helpful or compelling. It seems to me that the real value of this
paper is that it explores the character of spacelike geodesics on the
Schwarzschild hypersurface t = constant and θ =1/2 π, something that
the author does say and admirably illus- trates in Figure 1. As the
author argues, an inextensible, massless string is hopelessly
unrealistic in the context of black holes. As I have argued above, the
“possible way of manipulating a black hole” is illusory, and no
material string could actually be draped along the paths that the
author illustrates. So what is the value of exploring these shapes? I
think that the best thing that can be said is that these paths help us
explore the geometry of the Schwarzschild hypersurface. But what
exactly do we learn from this exploration? The introduction could make
a better case for what we can learn and its value.

4. Style, clarity, and grammar. Is the writing style, clarity, English grammar, etc. suitable for publica-
tion in AJP?

I found certain parts of this article very unclear. In general, I
would have found a longer but deeper article more valuable. The
explanations and justifications provided were generally too
terse. What “elementary methods” were used to arrive at equation (3)?
How does one do the “asymptotic” expansion that leads to equation (4)?
What exact “bisection technique” yields the critical value for
self-intersecting string? A brief description of the approaches would
give the reader stronger confidence that the reader understands the
described process.

The author used “dashes” below equation equation (5), but I think
meant to say “primes” (at least in American English).

I did not understand what the author was trying to say near the end of
section II, when the author said that a catenary was “manifestly
convex” while the taut string was “concave:” I’d like to see the
author spell this out. In the next paragraph, the author says that the
other end of a string with r0 > 0 is “tangential” to the event
horizon. Does this mean that it asymptotically approaches the event
horizon, or becomes tangential as it crosses the event horizon, or
what?  The same issue appears in the last paragraph of section III. In
both cases, I think a more precise statement about exactly what is
going on would be helpful to the reader.

If the author is going to illustrate null worldlines, it would help to
describe the equation for null worldlines that is analogous to
equation (6) and either derive it or specify a source.

Though this is probably not technically an error, I think that the
author specifies the critical value on the fourth line of page 5 to
unrealistic precision. As someone who does numerical modeling as part
of my research, I think that we cannot know this value to more than
three or maybe four decimal places without knowing much more about the
details of the computer model (for example, the size of the grid
steps, the order of the approximations, and whether the model uses
adaptive stepping). Even truncation errors associated with
double-precision floating-calculations might lead to errors larger
than those proposed by the author.

Finally, I found the unit system that the author uses to be
unconventional and unnecessarily opaque. While the author is certainly
free to express radii in units of the Schwarzschild radius, this is
not usually done in GR research and teaching: units where r, t, M, s,
etc. are expressed in length units are much more common (G = c = 1,
not 2GM = c = 1. Though there is nothing wrong with the author’s
choice in principle (and it certainly makes certain equations
simpler), for someone familiar with the field, it rubs against the
automatic unit-checking that many of us use to ensure that we are
doing things right. For example, an equation like r0 < r2 0 (in the
thirdline below equation (7)) drives that automatic unit-testing
subroutine crazy!  When I checked equation (6), I had to go back to
using units where r = 2M is the event horizon, so that I could track
down errors by checking units.

The author might consider adopting the more common practice of using
units where r is in length units and r = 2M is the radius of the event
horizon, and then use Greek-letter unitless variables such as ρ ≡ r/2M
to signal to the reader when one is using a unitless expression of
r. I’d then go back to unit-based equations in discussion and
interpretation. (An alternative would be to use r but define the
Schwarzschild radius to be b or some other simple symbol to avoid
writing 2M all the time. But I personally would simply use 2M for the
Schwarzschild radius: it is not all that much extra writing.) This
would help readers familiar with the conventions more easily extract
the equations’ physical meaning.

5. Figures and captions. Is the manuscript sufficiently and
appropriately illustrated with figures and are the figures and figure
captions clear?

Most of the figures were adequate and helpful. However, I had a lot of
trouble with Figure 3. I think that the author is only displaying half
a string, and that as one is going counterclockwise, the strings are
getting closer and closer to the event horizon at their starting
point. But this took me an unnecessarily long time to figure out. Some
more detailed explanation in the caption and some color-coding of the
strings would help.

Figure 8 was also troublesome. First of all, what is the physical
meaning of “tangent to the event horizon”? I guess that this means
that the string intersects the event horizon at one point. But
certainly no physical string could do this, and I am not sure that
even a spacelike geodesic could do this: I am thinking (though I am
not sure) that the string would have to end at that point.  By the
earlier argument, such a string would have to be self-intersecting
(maybe even intersecting multiple times). Also, since everything blurs
together at r = 1, φ = 0, I can’t tall which lines on the upper half
link to lines on the lower half (if they do). It would make sense that
these would be symmetrical, but if so, I don’t believe that the
parabola flanking the radial line at φ = 0 makes sense, considering
results from where the closest approach is r > 1. This needs more
explanation and clarification.

6. References. Are the references to
previous work, in this journal and elsewhere, adequate?

The references were adequate.

7. Overall recommendation: X Weak Revise and Resubmit

As outlined above, I think that this article would need many changes
to become acceptable, and I am not sure what the value would be to
most readers. Even so, I find the article modestly interesting myself,
and the author might be able to make an even better case for it in a
future revision.

8. Nature of the manuscript.

I think that this article is not directly applicable to the classroom,
but provides insights and back- ground that could have a modest impact
in a undergraduate or graduate-level general relativity course as an
interesting figure or as a homework problem.

9. Additional Commentary (Please use as much additional space as you
like to provide additional commentary and, if you are recommending
revision, suggestions for improvement.)  (I think that my commentary
above is already almost as long as the article itself!)


